---
title: <人工智能笔记>的笔记
author: 原作者--Francis Tseng (<a href="https://twitter.com/frnsys">@frnsys</a>) <br/> <h3>译者-- <a href="https://github.com/iou2much">iou2much</a></h3>
subtitle: Last Updated 01.19.2017
header-includes:
    - \raggedbottom
    - \setmainfont[BoldFont = SimHei.ttf, ItalicFont = Lato-Italic.ttf, BoldItalicFont = Lato-BoldItalic.ttf]{SimHei.ttf}
    - \setmonofont{Inconsolata-g for Powerline.otf}
toc: yes
geometry: margin=0.75in
fontsize: 12pt
toccolor: cyan
urlcolor: blue
documentclass: book
numbersections: yes
linestretch: 1.1
papersize: a4paper
---

### 译者序: 
本份材料为个人笔记, 会在Francis的基础上把个人收集到的相关材料再补充进去, 并对原文作选择性翻译, 英文对IT工程师, 特别是数据科学相关工作的工程师来说是不可或缺, 强烈建议读者能看原文, 至少在中文辅助的帮助下细读原文.

\chapter*{序}
\addcontentsline{toc}{chapter}{Introduction} \markboth{序}{}
### 原序

这是我的个人笔记, 意在广泛地记录涵盖数据科学, 机器学习及人工智能的基础知识.
这些内容是从众多不同的资料源收集而来, 我将在引用章节列明, 权当这是一个免责声明: 本份材料的大部分内容都非原创, 部分甚至是从别处直接复制而来.

以下译文略...

These are my personal notes which are broadly intended to cover the basics necessary for data science, machine learning, and artificial intelligence. They have been collected from a variety of different sources, which I include as references when I remember to - so take this as a disclaimer that most of this material is adapted, sometimes directly copied, from elsewhere. Maybe it's better to call this a "remix" or "katamari" sampled from resources elsewhere. I have tried to give credit where it is due, but sometimes I forget to include all my references, so I will generally just say that I take no credit for any material here.

Many of the graphics and illustrations are of my own creation or have been re-created from others, but plenty have also been sourced from elsewhere - again, I have tried to give credit where it is due, but some things slip through.

Data science, machine learning, and artificial intelligence are huge fields that share some foundational overlap but go in quite different directions. These notes are not comprehensive but aim to cover a significant portion of that common ground (and a bit beyond too). They are intended to provide intuitive understandings rather than rigorous proofs; if you are interested in those there are many other resources which will help with that.

Since mathematical concepts typically have many different applications and interpretations and often are arrived at through different disciplines and perspectives, I try to explain these concepts in as many ways as possible.

Some caveats:

- These are my personal notes; while I hope that they are helpful, they may not be helpful for you in particular!
- This is still very much a work in progress and it will be changing a lot - a lot may be out of order, missing, littered with TO DOs, etc.
- These notes are compiled from many sources, so there may be suddens shifts in notation/convention - one day I hope to do a deep pass and fix that, but who knows when that will be :\
- These notes are generated from [markdown files](https://github.com/frnsys/ai_notes), so they unfortunately lack any snazzy interactivity. I tried many ways to write markdown post-processors to add some, but it's a big time sink...

The raw notes and graphics are [open source](https://github.com/frnsys/ai_notes) - if you encounter errors or have a better way of explanining something, please don't hesistate to submit a pull request.

~ Francis Tseng ([@frnsys](https://twitter.com/frnsys))
~ Chibs (https://github.com/iou2much)